as well as using a counter to control Lupin.
It's also possible to use a condition in V B.
A.
There are two structures which allow this conditional looping.
In this video.
We'll look at the first of these doom loop structure.
The Do Loop statement has a couple of different formats,
and this means that it's quite a flexible statement.
It could be used in place of the four Next Leap,
which we saw in the last video,
and also the Wild Wend Loop,
which will see in the next video.
However,
there is one trick that it has,
which the other forms of Luke don't.
And that is it has the ability to ensure that the statements inside the loop will be
executed at least once.
And it's this unique feature which the other forms of Luke and can't do that will focus on
in this video.
So let's write a macro.
What,
and we'll just cool it do loop statement and then I'll start across the procedure of you.
Now we've seen several times how you can display an input box and get the user to Anderson
data,
which you then process one of the things you could do with a loop is to repeatedly display
and input box until the user either click the cancel button or enters an appropriate value
.
So,
in this example,
will say that we want the user to end a company email or click the cancel button.
So let's declare of a string variable str email in which will capture the user's email
address,
has string and let's then define a constant indicated how we want the email address toe end
so we'll have to call me str end as string and then we've got a set it because it's a
constant.
Let's say it has to end with at our company dot com.
So that's first of all,
cater for the cancel button.
So here's the basic structure that we'll be looking at.
So it's do then the statements that you want performed then Luke and you can either use
while or until so you can say Luke until a conditional testes,
true or loop,
while a conditional test is true.
So let's leave it as while it makes very little difference for our purposes.
So the test that will need is that str email is not equal to null string,
so we can either put two double quotation marks with nothing between them.
Or we could use VB null string and then inside the Luke will populate our str email using
input books.
No.
So let's test it.
The scientists and nonsense click OK,
you'll see.
Back comes the input box and when I can So then this statement ceases to be true.
Str email does equaled a null string.
Hence the loop will end.
So now we need to change our test into a compound test because we want to test for two
things.
We want to test that str email does not equal the null string and also that str email
There's no end with this strength.
A simple way of testing that one string ends with another stream is to use the right
function.
If you've used Microsoft Excel,
you may well have come across the functions left and right,
so they will read a number of characters starting from the left or starting from the right
.
The number of characters to be read is obviously the number of characters in this string.
We could heart code it.
There are 15 characters in the string,
so we could just put 15.
But it would be better to use a function to do this so that if this string ever gets
changed,
the function will still extract the correct length.
So we'll need and here because we want both conditions to be true and then it's right.
The string that we're looking inside is str email length The number of characters that you
want starting from the right instead of 15.
We use the land function and again you may remember this from using excel functions and the
thing we want.
The length off is str and this statement will return the last 15 characters of the email
that they've entered.
We now want to compare those characters with str end so we put not equal to str end.
So in other words,
as soon as the last 15 characters of str email are equal to str and then will end,
I'll do so.
The user now has two ways of ending the loop.
They can either click the cancel button and generate the null string,
or they can enter a string which ends with at our company.
Don't come on either of those two locals,
the loot end.
So let's test it so again,
I'll just put some nonsense and it's no happy.
We know that the cancel button works.
So if I just put grants at our company,
don't come then it's happy.
So having received that email from them,
let's just do something with it So we can test whether they actually entered an email or
whether they simply click on cancel.
So here we can say,
if just paste that in.
So now that's going to deat equal to rather than not equal to So in other words,
Now we want to say If str email does end with str End Ben and history books unless this
that's gonna be the report will be he mailed to the address ampersand str even and if
that's just company that again and then tested.
So we saved grams at our company.
Don't come.
Report will be emailed to the address Grant and our company.
You don't calm.
So just to point out then the thing that makes this structure unique is the fact that
whatever happens,
they will see the input box at least once.
It's also illegal to put the while at the top so we could say do while And of course,
if we do,
absolutely nothing happens because the test proves to be false from the start,
so this line doesn't actually get executed.
So this is the style of Do Loop,
which is unique among the three different Vehbi,
eh?
Lupin formats.
The fact that if you put the test with the loop statements rather than the do statement,
whatever statements are inside,
the loop will always be guaranteed to execute at least once.
Do Loop statement has a variety of formats.
However,
the structure that makes it unique is that it can ensure that the actions inside the loop
have performed at least once to obtain this functionality with the do loop,
use the syntax do statements while test condition oh do statements until test condition.